---
categories:
  - finance
date: 2019-07-14
draft: true
tags:
  - retirement
title: Contributing to Retirement as a Medical Resident
---

Some of my friends who have started their medical residencies have asked me what
they should know regarding contributing to their retirement savings. This guide
is intended to provide general information on how to approach contributing to a
403(b), which applies to many residents who work for non-profit hospitals. Much
of the following information also applies to 403(b)s in general. The intention
is to provide a brief overview without going into excessive, potentially
confusing details.

Disclaimer: I am not a financial professional, nor do I hold any financial
licenses. This post is for informational purposes only and is not intended to
serve as professional investment advice. It may not apply to your individual
situation.

## 401(k)

Let's go over the basic terms first. Beyond Social Security and regular savings,
the U.S. government has institutionalized many types of retirement accounts. The
common attribute is that they offer some sort of tax advantage to incentivize
people to save for retirement.

In the past, many companies offered pensions, which is a plan in which employees
receive fixed payments after retirement. Pension plans have become rarer, with
most companies now offering 401(k)s instead.

A traditional [401(k)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/401(k)) (which is named
that because it is defined in section 401(k) of the [Internal Revenue
Code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internal_Revenue_Code)) is a retirement
account in which the employee can contribute pre-tax money to the account. That
money can be invested in stocks, bonds, etc. After retirement, the person begins
to withdraw money and then pays taxes on the withdrawals. Because the taxes are
deferred, the person can end up with much more money than if he or she had
invested the money normally. The restriction is that you generally can't take
money out before age 59 1/2 without penalties.

Some employers also have a matching program in which they will contribute to
your retirement account as well if you contribute. For example, the company
might offer to match up to 50 cents on the dollar up to 6% of your salary (a
[fairly common
policy](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/120315/what-good-401k-match.asp).
So if you make $70,000 a year and contribute 10% to your 401(k), you'll
contribute $7,000 (10% of $70,000), and your employer will contribute $2,100
($0.50 * 6% of $70,000). Employer match is effectively free money.

## Traditional vs. Roth

An alternative to the traditional 401(k) is a Roth 401(k). The main difference
is that with a Roth 401(k), you contribute post-tax money instead of pre-tax
money.  Contributing to a Roth 401(k) doesn't reduce your taxable income.
However, the advantage is that you don't pay any taxes when you withdraw after
retirement. In other words, with a traditional 401(k), you pay taxes later. With
a Roth 401(k), you pay taxes now.

Deciding whether to contribute to traditional or Roth depends on individual
circumstances, but a general guideline is that you should prefer contributing to
a Roth if you expect your tax rate to be higher when you retire. This might make
sense for medical residents in particular because their salaries tend to be
quite low relative to what they will make post-residency.

## 403(b)

A [403(b)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/403(b)) is very similar to a 401(k),
but a 403(b) is only available to non-profit organizations, public education
organizations, and self-employed ministers. Some medical residents will have a
403(b) as an option rather than a 401(k).

## IRA

[IRA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Individual_retirement_account) stands for
Individual Retirement Account. Unlike a 401(k) or 403(b), these are not
sponsored by an employer. You can open one on your own, but you do need earned
income in order to contribute to it. The contribution limit is currently $6,000
per year. Like 401(k)s, IRAs come in traditional or Roth types.

## Retirement strategy

There are many factors you should consider when deciding your retirement
strategy.

The first is whether or not your company provides a match. A company
match is as close to free money as you'll ever get. What it means is that when
you put your own money into your 403b, your employer will also add money into
your account, according to their match policy.

If your employer offers a match, then you should try to take full advantage.

If they don't offer a match, then I recommend opening an IRA for several
reasons.

If you open an IRA, you'll definitely have the choice of opening a Roth IRA.
Your IRA is Roth, which is better for you right now. Maybe Sinai also offers
a Roth 403(b) but if not, that's a big plus for the IRA.

## Simpler finances

Your money won't be spread out across yet another account. You may be somewhere
different after residency, at which point you'd have to maintain an account just
for your residency hospital or deal with the hassle of rolling the money over to
an IRA.

## Fund options

You probably have better fund options in your IRA. Some employer accounts don't
have great options (high fund fees).

## Conclusion

Essentially, there is no benefit to contributing to a 403(b) unless your
employer offers matching or you can afford to max out your IRA contribution and
have additional money you want to put towards retirement.
